README.md, before:

# [FNX.io](https://www.fnx.io/) Appengine backend template

This repository is starting point for new backends which FNX creates for its customers.

The backend has two parts: the API server (java 7 compatible) and the admin app (angular2.dart)

## Prerequisities

 1. There are 2 prerequisities for this template to be used successfuly (leaving out working git and jdk8 setup):
   - installed [maven](https://maven.apache.org/) (3.3 +-): `brew install maven` (MacOS + Homebrew)
   - installed dart with dartium (preferably for nice dev experience) `brew install dart --with-dartium`
 2. `git clone https://github.com/fnx-io/backend new-app && cd new-app`
 3. After the project is imported, rename `io.fnx.backend` packages, log4j logging configuration and web.xml to appropriate package
 / name
 4. Change group id for your new project in [server/pom.xml](server/pom.xml)
 5. Change appengine project id in [server/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml](server/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml)
 6. Download dart project dependencies `cd admin && pub install; cd ..`
 
## Idea setup

Idea has great support for Appengine projects and Dart language. Start with installing the dart plugin for IntelliJ.

There is non trivial amount of steps involved when setting such project up. Please follow the video to make the necessary steps to have working Idea setup.

<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=_HA0gb1QwBM
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/_HA0gb1QwBM/0.jpg" width="240" height="180" border="10" /></a>

After you have working setup and managed to start the Appengine local server on [localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081) you can create first user: 

```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json"  -X POST -d '{"name":"First User","password":"tajneheslo", "email": "email@example.com"}' http://localhost:8081/api/v1/users
```

Server response will be similar to this one, grap the user id and lets make the user admin:

```
{"id":1,"email":"email@example.com","name":"First User","role":"USER"}
```

To make the user administrator, access protected URL [http://localhost:8081/api/v1/secure/system/users/1/admin](http://localhost:8081/api/v1/secure/system/users/1/admin) in your browser. You will be presented with login screen, check the Admin button and login. This will use Appengine authentication system in production and allow to be called only by Administrators of the project. This is mocked in the dev mode. The response should look similar to:

```
{"id":1,"email":"email@example.com","name":"First User","role":"ADMIN"}
```

Notice the role `ADMIN` attribute. You can use this your information into the [admin app](http://localhost:8081/admin)

## Development

### New entity

Create following:

- entity class (package domain)
- entity service and it's implementation - remember to annotate implementation methods with `@AllowedForFooBar` annotations
- entity REST resource

And register objects in:

- ObjectifyModule (entity)
- ServiceModule (service and implementation)
- JerseyApplication (REST resource)

Consider using scaffolding tool in Dart administration:

     pub run fnx_ui:scaffold_module super_entity super_entity_listing super_entity_edit
     
### Content Management System
     
Backend project template contains support for basic CMS (`CmsArticleEntity`). Structure of an article
is defined in Dart backend administration, and it's stored in `Map<String, Object> data`. 
Different kinds of articles are distinguished by `String type` property.
In Dart administration, type is taken from routing variable, see the main menu in `app.html`:

    <li><a [routerLink]="['Cms', {'type':'news'}]">News</a></li>
    <li><a [routerLink]="['Cms', {'type':'events'}]">Events</a></li>

Use the type value to adjust content of article form in `screen_cms_edit.html` or content of article preview in
`screen_cms_listing.html`:

    <fnx-input label="Main image" *ngIf="type == 'news'">
        <fnx-image [(ngModel)]="entity['data']['image']" [required]="true" [imageSet]="imageSet"></fnx-image>
    </fnx-input>

    <fnx-input label="Event date" *ngIf="type == 'events'">
        <fnx-date [(ngModel)]="entity['data']['eventDate']" [dateTime]="true"></fnx-date>
    </fnx-input>

This allows you to easily customize content of different types of articles, as well as share some basic properties among
different types of articles (HTML meta, project specific meta data, etc.).


It's very convenient, but it also might be limiting. In such case simply create new module and
listing and edit screens. It's also completely legal to extends `CmsArticleEntity` itself,
specially when you need to search or order by some of the article properties.

### Files and images

### Audit logs

Commit message:

Added documentation for app configuration.

README.md, after:

# [FNX.io](https://www.fnx.io/) Appengine backend template

This repository is starting point for new backends which FNX creates for its customers.

The backend has two parts: the API server (java 7 compatible) and the admin app (angular2.dart)

## Prerequisities

 1. There are 2 prerequisities for this template to be used successfuly (leaving out working git and jdk8 setup):
   - installed [maven](https://maven.apache.org/) (3.3 +-): `brew install maven` (MacOS + Homebrew)
   - installed dart with dartium (preferably for nice dev experience) `brew install dart --with-dartium`
 2. `git clone https://github.com/fnx-io/backend new-app && cd new-app`
 3. After the project is imported, rename `io.fnx.backend` packages, log4j logging configuration and web.xml to appropriate package
 / name
 4. Change group id for your new project in [server/pom.xml](server/pom.xml)
 5. Change appengine project id in [server/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml](server/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml)
 6. Download dart project dependencies `cd admin && pub install; cd ..`
 
## Idea setup

Idea has great support for Appengine projects and Dart language. Start with installing the dart plugin for IntelliJ.

There is non trivial amount of steps involved when setting such project up. Please follow the video to make the necessary steps to have working Idea setup.

<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=_HA0gb1QwBM
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/_HA0gb1QwBM/0.jpg" width="240" height="180" border="10" /></a>

After you have working setup and managed to start the Appengine local server on [localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081) you can create first user: 

```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json"  -X POST -d '{"name":"First User","password":"tajneheslo", "email": "email@example.com"}' http://localhost:8081/api/v1/users
```

Server response will be similar to this one, grap the user id and lets make the user admin:

```
{"id":1,"email":"email@example.com","name":"First User","role":"USER"}
```

To make the user administrator, access protected URL [http://localhost:8081/api/v1/secure/system/users/1/admin](http://localhost:8081/api/v1/secure/system/users/1/admin) in your browser. You will be presented with login screen, check the Admin button and login. This will use Appengine authentication system in production and allow to be called only by Administrators of the project. This is mocked in the dev mode. The response should look similar to:

```
{"id":1,"email":"email@example.com","name":"First User","role":"ADMIN"}
```

Notice the role `ADMIN` attribute. You can use this your information into the [admin app](http://localhost:8081/admin)

## Development

### New entity

Create following:

- entity class (package domain)
- entity service and it's implementation - remember to annotate implementation methods with `@AllowedForFooBar` annotations
- entity REST resource

And register objects in:

- ObjectifyModule (entity)
- ServiceModule (service and implementation)
- JerseyApplication (REST resource)

Consider using scaffolding tool in Dart administration:

     pub run fnx_ui:scaffold_module super_entity super_entity_listing super_entity_edit
     
### Content Management System
     
Backend project template contains support for basic CMS (`CmsArticleEntity`). Structure of an article
is defined in Dart backend administration, and it's stored in `Map<String, Object> data`. 
Different kinds of articles are distinguished by `String type` property.
In Dart administration, type is taken from routing variable, see the main menu in `app.html`:

    <li><a [routerLink]="['Cms', {'type':'news'}]">News</a></li>
    <li><a [routerLink]="['Cms', {'type':'events'}]">Events</a></li>

Use the type value to adjust content of article form in `screen_cms_edit.html` or content of article preview in
`screen_cms_listing.html`:

    <fnx-input label="Main image" *ngIf="type == 'news'">
        <fnx-image [(ngModel)]="entity['data']['image']" [required]="true" [imageSet]="imageSet"></fnx-image>
    </fnx-input>

    <fnx-input label="Event date" *ngIf="type == 'events'">
        <fnx-date [(ngModel)]="entity['data']['eventDate']" [dateTime]="true"></fnx-date>
    </fnx-input>

This allows you to easily customize content of different types of articles, as well as share some basic properties among
different types of articles (HTML meta, project specific meta data, etc.).


It's very convenient, but it also might be limiting. In such case simply create new module and
listing and edit screens. It's also completely legal to add more properties to `CmsArticleEntity` itself,
specially when you need to search or order by some of article properties.

### Files and images

### Audit logs

### Configuration

#### Server side

Configuration is stored in `BackendConfiguration.java` and is loaded from system environment
properties which are defined in `appengine-web.xml`. You WILL have to change for example `file.bucket` property.

#### Client (Dart) side

There are two configurations:

- *compile time*, which is stored in `lib/conf/*` and handled by
[fnx_config](https://pub.dartlang.org/packages/fnx_config). See app initialization in `admin.dart`. It usually contains
only the API endpoint which is different for development and for production.
- *runtime* configuration, which is downloaded from the server during start. See `ClientConfiguration.java`,
`ConfigResource.java` and again `admin.dart`. This configuration should for example contain all shared enums.
